1.	What are different network connectivity options to connect from On-prem or another cloud to GCP ?

* Cloud VPN - HA and Classic VPN
* Cloud Interconnect -  
        * Dedicated Interconnect - Its a direct physical connection between your on-premises network and Google's network near to google coloctaion facility
        * Partner Interconnect - provides connectivity between your on-premises and VPC networks through a supported service provider.


2.	Where & how the FW rules are managed in GCP when using shared VPC architecture ?

When using a shared VPC architecture where there is one host project and multiple service projects , all the networking configurations are done in the host project hence the firewalls are setup in the host project where VPC is created.


3.	How do you connect to GKE cluster from GCP cloudshell ?

GKE cluster has two end points one public and private , if you are using a public GKE cluster we are able to connect to the GKE control plane via the public end point using gcloud command :
gcloud container clusters get-credentials <cluster-name> --project <project-name>

As soon as we are authenticated via the API, we can run kubectl commands.

In case of private cluster , the public endpoint is disabled and if we want to connect from anoutside source we need to add master authorized ip in the cluster configurations . Since cloud shell is running on the internet we wont be able to whitelist an epiphermal IP. hence we wont able to connect.


4.	How is GCP VPC networking is different than AWS VPC networking ?

VPS's in google are global , we can create mutiple regional subnets into it. Whereas in AWS the VPC is a regional resource.
Subnets are zonal in AWS Whereas in GCP the subnets are regional


5.	Explain high level steps to create a service project in GCP org with Shared VPC enabled ? 

Step 1 : Grant a user/group Shared VPC Admin and Project IAM Admin roles at an organization level/folder level
Step 2 : In the console go to shared VPC page and enable the host project from the list of projects cureently active.
Step 3 : Click on Set up Shared VPC > Select subnets > Share all subnets or individul subnets depending upon the requirement 
Step 4 : In Attached projects tab , select the projects which you want to act as a service projects.
Step 5 : Select IAM users and grant service project admins so they can able to use the subnets in service projects.
